--- Extracting text from drive-download-20251229T152332Z-1-001/AV - Bid Package Audubon Villas.pdf ---
Total Pages: 48


--- Page 1 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 1 BID PACKAGE  
PR
OJECT  NAME : 
AUDUBON VILLAS AT HUNETR’S CREEK CONDOMINIUM N 
BUILDING S 12 THROUGH  16 
PROJECT ADDRESS : 
Fairway Island Drive  
Orlando , Florida 32837  
B
ID PACKAGE DATE: 
September 22, 2025  
C
ONTRACTOR SUBMITTAL DATE: 
October 6, 2025   
6200 LEE VISTA DRIVE  
ORLANDO, FLORIDA 3 2822 
PHONE: 800.200.5550  

--- Page 2 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 2 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Table of Contents  
Request for Proposal (RFP)  ......................................................................................................................... 3 
Project Overview  ........................................................................................................................................... 4 
Project Scope  ............................................................................................................................................... 5 
Proposal Submission  ................................................................................................................................... 8 
Instructions To Bidders  ............................................................................................................................. 11 
General & Supplementary Conditions  ..................................................................................................... 15 
Administrative Requirements  ................................................................................................................... 16 
Construction Project Schedule  ................................................................................................................. 21 
Temporary Facilities and Controls  ........................................................................................................... 22 
Product Requirements  .............................................................................................................................. 24 
Execution and Closeout Requirements  ................................................................................................... 27 
Closeout Submittals  .................................................................................................................................. 33 
Attachments  .............................................................................................................................................. 35 
 
 
 
  
  

--- Page 3 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 3 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Request for Proposal (RFP)  
Project Information  & Owner :  
Audubon Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium Association, Inc.  
14111 Fairways Island Drive  
Orlando, Florida 32837  
  
 Contact for Access : 
 Joan Jia  
joansjia@gmail.com  
 
Engineer of Record:   
Saribel Garcia , P.E. 
NV5, Inc.  
6200 Lee Vista Blvd., Suite 400   
Orlando , Florida 3 2822  
  
Submit Questions :  
Adam Bondi  
Adam.Bondi@NV5.com  
Cc: Saribel Garcia , P.E.  
saribel.garcia@NV5.com  
      

--- Page 4 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 4 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Project  Overview  
NV5, Inc. , on behalf of the  Audubon Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium Association, Inc.  (“Owner”) , 
formally invites you to bid on the Restoration at Audubon Villas Condominiums.  
Site Description  
• The Condominium consists of sixteen (16) 3 -story buildings.  
• The scope of this restoration project includes only Building s 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 (hereinafter 
“Buildings 12 through 16”, “Buildings 12 -16”, the “Buildings”) .  
• The Buildings consist of frame construction with tile roof  built on or around  1997 under the 
Standard Building Code 1991 edition with 1992 revisions.  
• As-built drawings are available for the buildings.  
• Structural Sheets are not included in this bid package; structural sheets will be provided with 
the Permit Package.  
RFP Deadlines  
• Pre-Bid Meeting Date:  September 10 , 2025 , at 10:00 AM 
o The pre -bid meeting is to be attended in person (no virtual meeting).  
o Bid submittals from contractors that d id not attend the pre- bid meeting will be rejected.  
• Questions & Clarifications to be Submitted by:  5:00 PM Friday,  September 26, 2025   
o If necessary, NV5 will email a list of answers to questions submitted by contractors.  
• Bid Submittal Date of October 6 , 2025, by 5:00 PM l ocal time. 
• The project will  be awarded two ( 2) weeks after  the Bid Submittal Date.  
Submitt al Instructions  
• Please complete the proposal submission form included in this bid package on Page s 8 
through 10 , ensure all blank spaces are filled in, and submit the form  to Adam Bondi (NV5) via 
email at  Adam.Bondi@NV5.com  
• Please use the Additions to Repair Specifications table included  if you wish to include 
additional information or clarification . 
Owner’s Rights  
• The Owner reserves the authority to waive any minor irregularities and to reject any or all bids. 
Furthermore, the Owner may enter into contract negotiations with bidders if desired by Owner.  
 Additional Documents   
• Attachment A – Balcony and Exterior Corridor Restoration Drawings.  
• Attachment B – Approved Materials and Specifications.  
 

--- Page 5 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 5 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Project Scope   
The scope of work for this bid package  primarily involves the restoration of the building ’s exterior 
façade, deck  replacement  at residential balconies, exterior corridors and landings , and structural 
components of a  3-story  building , as detailed in the Balcony and Exterior Corridor  Restoration  
Drawings .  
All construction activities must be carried out as outlined in the Project Manual  and adhere to 
established engineering practices , construction standards , and local jurisdiction code/requirements.  
Below  is a summary of the scope of work . Please  note, contractors are r equired to  verify 
measurements.   
General Scope of Work  
I. Structural Repairs.  
Structural components will be exposed during the II. Balcony , Exterior Corridor , and Landing  
Restoration , III. Column/Posts Chase (Stucco) Repairs,  and IV. Exterior Façade (Stucco)  
Repairs  described below .   
1. All rotted wood framing and sheathing shall be replaced as directed in the Structural 
Sheets .  
2. All deformed or corroded hangers,  nails, or metal structural connections shall be replaced 
as directed in Structural Sheets .  
II. Balcony , Exterior Corridor , and Landing  Restoration   
1. Remove underside (ceiling) of all balconies , exterior corridor s, and landings . Exposed 
structural framing elements to be inspected by the Engineer  prior to coating/floor finish 
removal.  
2. Provide shoring as required. Contractor is responsible for the design, furnishing, and 
installation of the shoring.  
3. Remove existing coating and/or floor finishes at all balconies, exterior corridors, and 
landings .  
4. Exposed structural framing elements to be inspected by the Engineer , prior to new framing, 
support, and decking installation.  
5. Install new balcony framing, supports, and decking, in accordance with Structural Sheets . 
6. Deck to be inspected by  the Engineer , prior to waterproofing installation.  
7. Install n ew waterproofing system, as directed by the Balcony and Exterior Corridor  
Restoration Drawings . 

--- Page 6 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 6 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 8. Modify drainage slope where necessary to ensure positive drainage of the new deck and 
eliminate any ponding of water.  
9. Install waterproofing coating system at all balconies and exterior corridors.  
10. Perform water tests to evaluate integrity of waterproofing installation . 
11. Install new concrete topping slab with tw o coats of concrete sealer at all balconies  and 
exterior corridors.  
12. Install underside (ceiling) finishes at all balconies and exterior corridors. 
III. Column/Posts Chase  (Stucco) Repairs.  
1. Remove and replace all  stucco finishes surrounding the column/post chases located at 
the balconies, exterior corridors, and landings . Refer to the Work Areas sheets in the Repair 
Drawings .  
2. All exposed areas after stucco removal shall be evaluated and deficiencies such as 
damaged sheathing and framing shall be corrected. 
3. Provide shoring as required.  
4. Stucco is to be replaced after the waterproofing of the adjoining deck has been completed.  
IV. Exterior Façade (Stucco) Repairs.  
1. Remove and replace delaminated, debonded, and bulging stucco finishes. Remove and 
replace stucco at locations with corrosion staining.  
2. Work l ocation shall include exterior façade walls  and ceilings , balcony walls, and balcony 
ceilings. Locations shall be marked by the Engineer  during initial exterior façade 
evaluation.  
3. Seal stucco cracks .  
4. Install construction joints and reveals to match existing.   
5. Remove and replace all sealants within existing control joints.  
6. All exposed areas after stucco removal shall be evaluated and deficiencies such as 
damaged sheathing and framing shall be corrected.  
V. Painting of Repair Areas. 
1. All repair areas should  be cleaned and free  of mildew, chalk, loose, delaminating, or 
peeling paint and other residues, contaminants, and/or bond inhibitors.  
2. Apply the primer no more  than 48 hours after cleaning and  allow primer to dry as directed 
by manufacturer ’s specification .  
3. Apply two coats of paint allowing drying  between coats in accordance with the 
manufacturer ’s specifications.   
 
 

--- Page 7 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 7 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Applicable Codes  
- Florida Building Code (FBC) – 8th Edition (2023)  
- ICRI (International Concrete Repair Institute): ICRI 310.2R, 320.1R, 330R  
- ASTM International Standards  
- National Design Specifications (NDS) for wood construction  
- American Wood Council (AWC) standards 
- Standard Specification for Application of Portland Cement -Based Plaster (ASTM C926 -18b).  
- Standard Specification for Installation o f Lathing a nd Furring t o Receive Interior a nd Exterior 
Portland Cement -Based Plaster (ASTM C1063 - 19a).  
- Standard Specification for Elastomeric Joint Sealants (ASTM C 920-18).  
- Standard Specification for High Solids Content, Cold Liquid -Applied Elastomeric Waterproofing 
Membrane for Use with Separate Wearing Course ( ASTM C 836/ C836 M-18).  
- OSHA Safety Requirements  
General R equirements  
1. All work shall be performed in accordance with applicable codes and standards listed above.  
2. No work shall proceed without written approval from the Engineer of Record (EOR). All 
deviations, substitutions, or field changes must be reviewed and approved prior to execution.  
3. The Contractor shall submit product data, shop drawings, mockups, repair procedures, and 
work sequencing for approval.  
4. Protect all adjacent areas, structural elements, and finishes during construction. 
5. Maintain a clean and safe job site; all work must comply with OSHA standards.  
6. Notify EOR of any unforeseen conditions immediately. No unauthorized repairs are permitted.  
7. Work shall be performed only by licensed and qualified personnel. All repairs must be visually 
inspected and approved.  
8. Submit photos of concealed work prior to concealment.  
9. Perform pull -tests or bond tests as requested by EOR.  
10. All materials must be installed per manufacturer instructions and verified for code compliance.  
11. Submit daily progress reports and coordinate regular site inspections with the Engineer.  
12. Maintain access for residents and egress for fire safety as required. 
  

--- Page 8 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 8 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Proposal Submission  
AUDUBON VILLAS CONDOMINIUM  - REPAIR SPECIFICATIONS  
 
Item  Description of Work  Quantity  Unit Unit Cost  Total  
I Structural      
1 Wall sheathing repairs and replacement 
as needed.  TBD  SF      
2 Wall framing members repairs and replacement as needed.  TBD LF     
3 Balcony deck sheathing repairs and 
replacement as needed.  TBD SF     
4 Joists and beams removal and replacement as needed.  TBD LF     
5 Balcony wood column removal and 
replacement as needed.  TBD LF   
II Balcony, Exterior corridor , and Landing Restoration      
1 Remove and replace all existing ceiling 
finishes at all unit balconies, exterior 
corridor s, and landings . 
Replacement of ceiling finishes to occur after 
completion of Balcony and Exterior corridor 
Restoration.            
13,450    SF      
2 Remove concrete topping at all unit 
balconies, exterior corridor s, and 
landings.  
Does not include ground level.  13,450   SF      
3 Install waterproofing system, turn up the 
waterproofing 4 inches at the walls  at all 
unit balconies, exterior corridor s, and 
landings .  
Include  removal and replacement of the 6" stucco 
at wall/deck connection, modification of slope to ensure positive drainage, and water test to 
evaluate integrity of waterproofing installation
 in 
this line item .   13,450   SF      
4 Install new concrete topping slab with 
two (2) coats of concrete sealer at all 
unit balconies, exterior corridor s, and 
landings.            
13,450   SF      
  

--- Page 9 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 9 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 III Column/Posts Chase (Stucco) Repairs      
1 Exterior stucco removal at the 
column/posts chase along exterior 
corridor s, balconies and landings.  15,125   SF       
2 Exterior stucco standard installation, 3 -
coat process per ASTM C926, nominal 
7/8” thickness.  15,125   SF      
IV Exterior Façade (Stucco) Repairs      
1 Exterior stucco removal & replacement at the exterior façade (standard 
installation, 3 -coat process per ASTM 
C926, nominal 7/8” thickness).  
For reference each building has approximately 
13,500 SF of stucco painted surfaces.   TBD   SF       
2 Exterior stucco cracks (rout and seal). 
Remove paint within 2" of crack (each 
side) and blend repair mortar to match 
texture as much as reasonably possible.   TBD   LF       
3 Replace deteriorated sealants at Control Joints and Expansion Joints with approved material.  TBD LF     
V Painting of Repair Areas      
1 Painting of all repaired exterior façade 
walls and ceilings.  
Includes surface preparation.  
Includes all stucco finishes affected by the repairs. 
Interior areas not included.  TBD SF     
2 Painting of all railings, vents, scuppers, 
louvers, unit front doors, balcony storage 
room doors, mechanical room doors, and all other service doors and frames 
affected by the repairs.  
Includes surface preparation. Interior areas not 
included.  TBD SF      
3 Remove and replace sealant around 
fenestrations (windows, door, etc.) prior 
to painting. Includes cutting a ¼” rake joint between fenestration frames and 
stucco.  TBD LF      
  TOTAL        $ 
  

--- Page 10 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 10 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 General Conditions  
Description of Work  Quantity  Unit Unit Cost  Total  % 
General Conditions  
Include overhead protection, additional lighting, 
and portable restroom facilities, as needed.   1 LS        
Mobilization and Demobilization   1 LS        
Shoring  1 LS       
Permit  1 LS       
Performance and Payment Bonds  1 LS       
  Grand Total             $ 
  
 Project Duration (Days)  
 
ADDITIONS TO  REPAIR SPECIFICATIONS  
Item    Description of Work  Quantity  Unit Unit Cost  Total  
Ad1       
Ad2       
Ad3      
Ad4      
Ad5      
Ad6      

--- Page 11 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 11 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Instructions To Bidders 
All work performed under this scope of work shall be in accordance with the SPECIFICATIONS 
and CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.  
CONTRACT  BIDDING:   
The bid shall be submitted in accordance with the scope of work, which shall include unit prices for each item of repair and shall follow the criteria as outlined in the CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS.  
BIDDER'S
 QUALIFICATIONS:   
To demonstrate qualifications to perform the work, each BIDDER must be prepared to submit, within fifteen (15) days of the OWNER'S request evidence such as licenses, insurance coverage, previous experience, present commitments, and up -to-date recommendatio ns from 
other work and other such data which may be requested by the OWNER.  
INTENT:  
BID INTENT: The intent of this Bid request is to obtain an offer to perform work to complete a 
concrete, stucco, waterproofing, and painting project located at the Condominium for a Unit 
Price and Lump Sum contract, in accordance with the Contract Document s. 
CONTRACT  BIDDING:   
The bid shall be submitted in accordance with the scope of work, which shall include unit prices for many items of repair and shall follow the criteria as outlined in the CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.  
CONTRACT
 TIME : 
Identify Contract Time in the Bid Form. The completion date in the Agreement shall be the Contract Time added to the commencement date.  
DEFINITIONS : 
Bid Documents: Contract Documents supplemented with Invitation To Bid, Instructions to Bidders, Information Available to Bidders, Bid Form Supplements To Bid Forms, and 
Appendices identified.  
BID
 DOCUMENTS:   
The bidding CONTRACTOR must obtain BID documents directly from the Engineer. Documents can only be obtained by the General Contractor. Bid documents are the entire specification 
package.  
  

--- Page 12 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 12 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 INTERPRETATIONS  AND  ADDENDA:   
Questions about the meaning or intent of the CONTRACT DOCUMENTS are to be directed to 
the ENGINEER. Interpretations or clarifications considered necessary by the ENGINEER in response to such questions will be issued by addenda. Only questions answered by f ormal 
written addenda will be binding.  
EXAMINATION : 
Upon receipt of Bid Documents, verify that the documents are complete. Notify the Engineer 
should the documents be incomplete. Immediately notify the Engineer upon finding 
discrepancies or omissions in the Bid Documents.  
EXAMINATION  OF CONTRACT  DOCUMENTS  AND  SITE:   
It is the responsibility of each BIDDER before submitting a BID, to (a) examine the CONTRACT DOCUMENTS thoroughly, (b) visit the site to become familiar with all local conditions that may affect cost, progress, performance or furnishing of the work, (c) consider federal, state and 
local laws and regulations that may affect cost, progress, performance or furnishing of the 
work, and (d) study carefully to correlate BIDDER'S observations with the CONTRACT.  Notify 
the ENGINEER of all conflicts, errors or discre pancies in the CONTRACT DOCUMENTS which 
might result in additional costs to the Owner.  
INQUIRIES/ADDENDA  
A. Addenda may be issued during the bidding period. All Addenda become part of the Contract 
Documents. Include resultant costs in the Bid Amount.  
B. Verbal answers are not binding on any party.  
C. Clarifications requested by bidders must be in writing not less than 7 days before the date  
set for receipt of bids. The reply will be in the form of an Addendum, a copy of which will be forwarded to known recipients and bidders.  
D. Oral and other interpretations or clarifications will be without legal effect. Addenda may 
also be issued to modify the BIDDING DOCUMENTS as deemed advisable by OWNER or ENGINEER.  
SITE
 EXAMINATION  
Examine the project site before submitting a bid.  
EVIDENCE  OF QUALIFICATIONS  
To demonstrate qualification for performing the Work of this Contract, bidders may be 
requested to submit written evidence of financial position, license to perform work in the State 
and related information.  
SUBMISSION  PROCEDURE 
Bidders shall be solely responsible for the delivery of their bids in the manner and time prescribed. 

--- Page 13 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 13 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 ACCEPTANCE  OF OFFER 
A. Association  reserves the right to accept or reject any or all offers. 
B.  CONTRACT  TIME: The number of days within which, or the dates by which, the WORK is to 
be substantially completed and ready for final payment (the contract time) are set forth in 
the AGREEMENT. If the contract times are not outlined or included, the time for substa ntial 
completion is to be set forth by BIDDER in the BID and will be included in the agreement. 
The times will be taken into consideration by the OWNER during the evaluation of the BIDS, 
and it will be necessary for the successful BIDDER to satisf y the OWNER of the BIDDER'S 
ability to achieve substantial completion and final completion within the times designated 
in the BID. 
C. APPLICABLE CODES: Recommendations and requirements of the following entities shall govern all work, workmanship, and materials as they apply, as follows:  
I. ASTM –  American Society of Testing Materials  
II. ACI –  American Concrete Institute 318 & 562- Latest  
III. FBC –  Florida Building Code, Latest Edition (202 3 - 7th Edition)  
IV. ICC- International Code Counsel  
V. ICRI – International Concrete Repair Institute ASCE - American Society of Civil 
Engineers  
VI. AWI- American Welding Institute  
VII. AAMA- American Architectural Manufacturers Association PCP-Portland Cement 
Plaster  
VIII. UL – Underwriters Laboratories  
D. SUBSTITUTE OR "OR -EQUAL" ITEMS: The CONTRACT, if awarded, will be on the basis of  
materials and equipment described in the drawings and specified in the specifications without consideration of possible substitutes  or "or -equal" items. Whenever it is indicated 
in the specifications that a substitute or "or -equal" item of material or equipment may be 
furnished or used by the CONTRACTOR if acceptable to the ENGINEER, application for each acceptance will not be conside red by the ENGINEER until after the effective date of the 
AGREEMENT. The procedure for submission of any such application by  the CONTRACTOR 
and the consideration by the ENGINEER is set forth in the general conditions.  
E. SUBCONRACTORS, SUPPLIERS AND OTHERS: If the specifications require (or if the OWNER 
request after the BIDS are received) the identity of certain SUBCONTRACTORS, 
SUPPLIERS, and other persons and organizations (including those who are to furnish the principl e items of materials and equipment) to be submitted to the OWNER in advance of 
the specified date prior to the said AGREEMENT, submit to the OWNER a list of all such SUBCONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS and other persons and organizations proposed for those portions of the WORK for which such identification is required. Such list shall be 
accompanied by an experience statement with pertinent information regarding similar projects and other qualifications for each SUBCONTRACTOR, SUPPLIER, person or organization if requ ested by the OWNER. SUBCONTRACTORS shall be required to meet the 

--- Page 14 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 14 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 contractor's liability insurance requirements as established by the GENERAL AND 
SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS.  
F. If the OWNER or ENGINEER after due investigation has reasonable objections to any 
proposed SUBCONTRACTOR and SUPPLIER, either may, before the Notice of Award is 
given, request the apparent SUCCESSFUL BIDDER declines to make any such substitution, 
the OWNER  may award the contract to the next lowest BIDDER that proposed to use 
acceptable SUBCONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS and other persons and organizations.  
G. No CONTRACTOR shall be required to employ any SUBCONTRACTOR, SUPPLIER , or other 
person of organization against whom the CONTRACTOR has reasonable objection. A CONTRACTOR may withdraw the bid in writing to the Owner or Engineer prior to the time 
set for the opening of bids.  
H. SUBMISSION OF BIDS: BIDS shall be submitted at the time, date, and place indicated in 
the ADVERTISEMENT or INVITATION TO BID. Provide 2 BID packages with references, 
comparable projects, Contractor advertisement, etc., to the Association, or if directed by  
the Association, to the Engineer.  
I. AWARD OF CONTRACT: The OWNER reserves the right to reject any and all BIDS, portions of the bid, to waive any and all informalities not involving price, time or change in the work 
and to negotiate contract terms with the PROPOSED BIDDER, and the right to disregard all non-conforming, non - responsive, unbalanced or conditional bids. The OWNER also 
reserves the right to reject the BID if not responsive or the BIDDER is unqualified or of doubtful financial ability or fails to meet any other pertinent standard or criteria established by the OWNER. Additionally, the OWNER reserves the right to break up the 
individual components of each SUBMITTED BID. In evaluating the BIDS, the OWNER will consider the qualification of the BIDDERS, whether or not the BIDS comply with the prescribed requirements, and such alternatives, unit prices, and other data.  
J. The CONTRACTOR must fill in the Bid Form “ELECTRONICALLY”. Send Contractor’s request 
for electronic bid sheets adam.bondi@NV5.com
. 
K. There are items in the specification package where the word “equal” or “equal and 
approved” is listed. It is at the discretion of the Engineer to approve the equality of a 
material or item.  
L. The CONTRACTOR shall consider the AIA 101 and AIA 201 contract packages at this time. 
The Association will deliver these AIA packages for review to their legal counsel.  
 
END  OF INSTRUCTIONS  TO BIDDERS  
  

--- Page 15 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 15 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 General & Supplementary Conditions  
It is understood that, except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, the Contractor 
shall provide and pay for insurance, materials, labor, tools, storage, equipment, telephone 
and temporary construction of every nature. 
Prior to submitting a proposal, each bidder shall examine and thoroughly familiarize himself 
with all existing conditions.  Bidders shall visit the site, examine the grounds and all existing buildings and utilities and shall ascertain by any reasonable means all conditions that will affect their work in any manner.  Bidders shall ask the Engineer for any additional information deemed necessary for them to be fully informed as exactly what is to be expected prior to the submission  of a proposal.  The drawing s have been prepared on the basis of surveys and 
inspections of the site and represent an essentially accurate indication of the physical condition at the site.  This shall not relieve the Bidder of the necessity for fully informing himself as to the exist ing physical conditions.  
The Owner and Contractor shall enter into a contractual agreement for the execution of the work.   
An Insurance Certificate showing evidence that the Owner is being provided with insurance 
coverage shall be required.  The Contractor shall provide and maintain throughout the contract 
the following minimum requirements:  
a. Statutory Workmen's Compensation Insurance   
b. Type of Insurance & Minimum Liability  
 General Liability - All operations bodily injury and property damage (each occurrence)
 $1,000,000 
       Automobile Liability - Bodily Injury (per person)  $   500,000  
        Bodily injury (per accident)  $   500,000  
        Property Damage  $   500,000  
  

--- Page 16 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 16 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 The Contractor is responsible for verification of existing site conditions and dimensions.  
Contractor shall perform cleanup operations, remove rubbish, waste materials and other 
debris, both during progress of the work, and at completion of the project.  
At all times during the execution  of the work, the Contractor shall have a designated 
competent supervisor present, who shall be identified to the Owner before the start of the 
work.  This supervisor shall be authorized to speak on behalf of the Contractor with respect to 
all matters rega rding the work or he shall be in ready contact with a person with such authority.  
The supervisor shall also have full authority and ability to direct all operations of the work. 
Contractor shall bear all expenses of providing or complying with all of the requirements of 
this Contract, including the cost of safety, security and utilities (unless otherwise noted) necessary to perform the work. 
Contractor shall secure all permits, licenses, and other governmental authorizations 
necessary for the lawful execution and completion of the work. 
END  OF SECTION  
 
Administrative Requirements   
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Preconstruction meeting.  
B. Progress meetings.  
C. Construction progress schedule.  
D. Submittals for review, information, and project closeout.  
E. Submittal procedures.  
1.02  RELATED REQUIREMENTS  
A. Section 01 7000 - Execution and Closeout Requirements: Additional coordination 
requirements.  
B. Section 01 7800 - Closeout Submittals: Project record documents.  

--- Page 17 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 17 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 1.03  PROJECT COORDINATION  
A. Project Coordinator: Manager or Designated Board Representative.  
B. Cooperate with the Project Coordinator in allocation of mobilization areas of site,  
for field offices and sheds, for project access, traffic, and parking facilities.  
C. During construction, coordinate use of site and facilities through the Project 
Coordinator.  
D. Comply with instructions of the Project Coordinator for use of temporary utilities and construction facilities.  
E. Make the following types of submittals to Engineer through the Project Coordinator:  
1. Requests for interpretation. 
2. Shop drawings, product data, and samples.  
3. Test and inspection reports.  
4. Applications for payment and change order requests.  
5. Progress schedules. 
6. Coordination drawings.  
7. Closeout submittals.   
PART 2  EXECUTION  
2.01 PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING  
A. Attendance Required: 
1. Association.  
2. Engineer.  
3. Contractor.  
B. Agenda:  
1. Execution of Association - Contractor Agreement. 
2. Submission of executed bonds and insurance certificates.  
3. Distribution of Contract Documents.  
4. Submission of list of Subcontractors, list of Products, schedule of values, and 
progress schedule. 
5. Designation of personnel representing the parties to Contract, Association and Engineer.  
6. Procedures and processing of field decisions, submittals, substitutions, applications for payments, proposal request, Change Orders, and Contract 

--- Page 18 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 18 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 closeout procedures.  
7. Scheduling.  
2.02 PROGRESS MEETINGS  
A. Schedule and administer meetings throughout progress of the Work at maximum 
monthly intervals. 
B. Attendance Required: Job superintendent, major Subcontractors and suppliers, 
Association, Engineer, as appropriate to agenda topics for each meeting.  
C. Agenda:  
1. Review minutes of previous meetings.  
2. Review of Work progress.  
3. Field observations, problems, and decisions.  
4. Identification of problems that impede, or will impede, planned progress.  
5. Review of submittals schedule and status of submittals.  
6. Maintenance of progress schedule. 
7. Corrective measures to regain projected schedules.  
8. Planned progress during succeeding work period.  
9. Maintenance of quality and work standards.  
10. Effect of proposed changes on progress schedule and coordination.  
11. Other business relating to Work.  
D. Record minutes and distribute copies prior to next meeting to participants, with copies to Engineer, Association Representatives, participants, and those affected by decisions made.  
2.03 SUBMITTALS FOR REVIEW  
A. When the following are specified in individual sections, submit them for review:  
1. Product data.  
2. Shop drawings.  
3. Samples for selection.  
4. Samples for verification.  
B. Submit to Engineer for review for the limited purpose of checking for conformance with information given and the design concept expressed in the contract 
documents.  
C. Samples will be reviewed only for aesthetic, color, or finish selection. 

--- Page 19 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 19 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 D. After review, provide copies and distribute in accordance with SUBMITTAL 
PROCEDURES article below and for record documents purposes described in Section 01 7800 - Closeout Submittals.  
2.04 SUBMITTALS FOR INFORMATION  
A. When the following are specified in individual sections, submit them for information:  
1. Design data.  
2. Certificates.  
3. Test reports. 
4. Inspection reports.  
5. Manufacturer's instructions.  
6. Manufacturer's field reports.  
7. Other types indicated.  
B. Submit for Engineer's knowledge as contract administrator or for Association. No action will be taken.  
2.05 SUBMITTALS FOR PROJECT CLOSEOUT 
A. When the following are specified in individual sections, submit them at project 
closeout:  
1. Project record documents- City Permit Closeout.  
2. Warranties.  
3. Bonds.  
4. Release of Liens.  
B. Submit for Association's benefit during and after project completion.  
2.06 NUMBER OF COPIES OF SUBMITTALS  
A. Documents for Information: Submit two hard copies and one pdf via email . 
B. Samples: Submit the number specified in individual specification sections; one of 
which will be retained by Engineer.  
1. After reviewing , produce duplicates.  
2. Retained samples will not be returned to Contractor unless specifically so stated.  
 
2.07 SUBMITTAL PROCEDURES  

--- Page 20 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 20 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 A. Transmit each submittal with approved form.  
B. Sequentially number the transmittal form. Revise submittals with original number 
and a sequential alphabetic suffix.  
C. Identify Project, Contractor, Subcontractor or supplier,  pertinent drawing and detail 
number, and specification section number, as appropriate on each copy.  
D. Apply Contractor's stamp, signed or initialed certifying that review, approval, verification of Products required, field dimensions, adjacent construction Work, and coordination of information is in accordance with the requirements of the Work and Contract  Documents.  
E. Schedule submittals to expedite the Project, and coordinate submission of related items.  
F. For each submittal for review, allow 15 days excluding delivery time to and from the Contractor.  
G. Identify variations from Contract Documents and Product or system limitations that may be detrimental to successful performance of the completed Work. 
H. Provide space for Contractor and Engineer review stamps.  
I. When revised for resubmission, identify all changes made since previous 
submission.  
J. Distribute reviewed submittals as appropriate. Instruct parties to promptly report any inability to comply with requirements.  
K. Submittals not requested will not be recognized or processed.  
 
END  OF SECTION  
  

--- Page 21 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 21 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Construction Project Schedule  
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Preliminary schedule. 
B. Construction progress schedule, bar chart type. 
1.02  RELATED SECTIONS  
A. Section 01 1000 - Summary: Work sequence.  
1.03  SUBMITTALS  
A. Within 10 days after date of Agreement, submit preliminary schedule defining 
planned operations for the first 60 days of Work, with a general outline for remainder of Work.  
B. If preliminary schedule requires revision after review, submit revised schedule within 10 days.  
C. Submit updated schedule with each Application for Payment.  
PART 2  EXECUTION  
2.01  PRELIMINARY SCHEDULE  
A. Prepare preliminary schedule in the form of a horizontal bar chart.  
2.02  CONTENT  
A. Show complete sequence of construction by activity, with dates for beginning and completion of each element of construction.  
B. Identify each item by specification section number.  
C. Show accumulated percentage of completion of each item, and total percentage of Work completed, as of the first day of each month.  
D. Provide legend for symbols and abbreviations used.  
2.03  BAR CHARTS  
A. Include a separate bar for each major portion of Work or operation.  
B. Identify the first workday  of each week. 
2.04  UPDATING SCHEDULE  
A. Maintain schedules to record actual start and finish dates of completed activities.  
B. Indicate progress of each activity to date of revision, with projected completion date 

--- Page 22 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 22 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 of each activity.  
C. Annotate diagrams to graphically depict current status of Work.  
D. Identify activities modified since previous submittal, major changes in Work, and 
other identifiable changes. 
E. Indicate changes required to maintain Date of Substantial Completion.  
2.05  DISTRIBUTION OF SCHEDULE  
A. Distribute copies of updated schedules to Contractor's project site file, to Subcontractors, suppliers, Engineer, Association, and other concerned parties.  
B. Instruct recipients to promptly report, in writing, problems anticipated by projections shown in schedules.  
 
END  OF SECTION  
 
Temporary Facilities and Controls  
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Temporary sanitary facilities.  
B. Temporary Controls: Barriers, enclosures, and fencing.  
C. Security requirements. 
D. Vehicular access and parking.  
E. Waste removal facilities and services.  
F. Project identification sign.  
1.02  RELATED REQUIREMENTS  
A. Temporary Utilities.  
B. Field Offices and Sheds.  
C. Vehicular Access and Parking.  
D. Security Procedures. 
E. Temporary Project Signage.  
1.03  TEMPORARY UTILITIES  
A. Association will provide the following:  

--- Page 23 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 23 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 1. Electrical power, consisting of limited amounts as required to complete the 
renovations as stated in the specifications.  
2. Water supply, consisting of limited amounts to provide the necessary work and cleanup as stated in the specifications and contract.  
B. Use trigger -operated nozzles for water hoses, to avoid waste of water.  
1.04  TEMPORARY SANITARY FACILITIES  
A. Provide and maintain required facilities and enclosures. Provide at time of project mobilization.  
B. Maintain daily in clean and sanitary condition.  
C. At end of construction, return facilities to same or better condition as originally found.  
1.05  BARRIERS  
A. Provide barriers to prevent unauthorized entry to construction areas, to prevent access to areas that could be hazardous to workers or the public, to allow for owner's use of site and to protect existing facilities, pedestrians, and adjacent properties from damage from construction operations and demolition.  
B. Provide barricades and covered walkways required by governing authorities for 
public rights -of-way and for public access to existing building.  
C. Protect vehicular traffic, stored materials, site, and structures from damage. 
1.06  FENCING 
A. Construction: Contractor's option.  
1.07  SECURITY - SEE SECTION 01 3553  
A. Provide security and facilities to protect Work, existing facilities, and Association's 
operations where possible.  
B. Coordinate with Association's security program.  
1.08  VEHICULAR ACCESS AND PARKING - SEE SECTION  
A. Comply with regulations relating to use of streets and sidewalks, access to emergency facilities, and access to  emergency vehicles. 
B. Coordinate access and haul routes with governing authorities and Association.  
C. Provide and maintain access to fire hydrants, free of obstruction.  
D. Provide means of removing mud from vehicle wheels before entering streets.  
E. Provide temporary parking areas to accommodate construction personnel. When 

--- Page 24 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 24 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 site space is not adequate, provide additional off -site parking.  
F. Provide one parking space for Engineer's use.  
1.09  WASTE REMOVAL  
A. Provide waste removal facilities and services as required to maintain the site in 
clean and orderly condition.  
B. Provide containers and remove trash from site periodically.  
C. If materials to be recycled or re -used on the project must be stored on -site, provide 
suitable non -combustible containers; locate containers holding flammable material 
outside the structure unless otherwise approved by the authorities having 
jurisdiction.  
D. Open free -fall chutes are not permitted. Terminate closed chutes into appropriate 
containers with lids.  
1.10 PROJECT IDENTIFICATION  
A. No Contractor advertisement signs are allowed without Association's permission except those required by law. 
 
END  OF SECTION  
Product Requirements  
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Substitution limitations and procedures.  
1.02  SUBMITTALS  
A. Product Data Submittals: Submit the manufacturer's standard published data. 
Mark each copy to identify applicable products, models, options, and other data. 
Supplement manufacturers' standard data to provide information specific to this 
Project.  
B. Shop Drawing Submittals: Prepared specifically for this Project; indicate utility and 
electrical characteristics, utility connection requirements, and location of utility 
outlets for service for functional equipment and appliances.  
C. Sample Submittals: Illustrate functional and aesthetic characteristics of the 

--- Page 25 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 25 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 product, with integral parts and attachment devices. Coordinate sample submittals 
for interfacing work. 1. For selection from standard finishes, submit samples of the full range of the 
manufacturer's standard colors, textures, and patterns.  
 
PART 2 PRODUCTS  
2.01  NEW PRODUCTS  
A. Provide new products unless specifically required or permitted by the Contract 
Documents.  
2.02  PRODUCT OPTIONS  
A. Products Specified by Reference Standards or by Description Only: Use any product meeting those standards or description.  
B. Products Specified by Naming One or More Manufacturers: Use a product of one of the manufacturers named and meeting specifications, no options or substitutions allowed.  
 
PART 3 EXECUTION  
3.01  SUBSTITUTION PROCEDURES  
A. Instructions to Bidders specify time restrictions for submitting requests for 
substitutions during the bidding period. Comply with requirements specified in this section.  
B. Engineer will consider requests for substitutions only within 30 days after date of Agreement. 
C. Document each request with complete data substantiating compliance of proposed substitution with Contract Documents.  
D. A request for substitution constitutes a representation that the submitter:  
1. Has investigated proposed product and determined that it meets or exceeds 
the quality level of the specified product. 
2. Will provide the same warranty for the substitution as for the specified product.  
3. Will coordinate installation and make changes to other Work that may be 
required for the Work to be complete with no additional cost to Association.  
4. Waives claims for additional costs or time extension that may subsequently 

--- Page 26 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 26 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 become apparent.  
A. Submittal Procedure:  
1. Submit three copies of request for substitution for consideration. Limit each 
request to one proposed substitution.  
2. Submit shop drawings, product data, and certified test results attesting to the proposed product equivalence. Burden of proof is on proposer.  
3. The Engineer will notify Contractor in writing of decision to accept or reject request. 
3.02  TRANSPORTATION AND HANDLING  
A. Coordinate schedule of product delivery to designated prepared areas in order to minimize site storage time and potential damage to stored materials.  
B. Transport and handle products in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.  
C. Transport materials in covered trucks to prevent contamination of product and littering of surrounding areas.  
D. Promptly inspect shipments to ensure that products comply with requirements, quantities are correct, and products are undamaged.  
E. Provide equipment and personnel to handle products by methods to prevent 
soiling, disfigurement, or damage.  
F. Arrange for the return of packing materials, such as wood pallets, where economically feasible. 
3.03  STORAGE AND PROTECTION  
A. Designate receiving/storage areas for incoming products so that they are delivered according to installation schedule and placed conveniently  to work area in order to 
minimize waste due to excessive materials handling and misapplication.  
B. Store and protect products in accordance with manufacturers' instructions.  
C. Store with seals and labels intact and legible.  
D. Store sensitive products in weather tight, climate controlled, enclosures in an 
environment favorable to product.  
E. For exterior storage of fabricated products, place on sloped supports above ground.  
F. Cover products subject to deterioration with impervious sheet covering. Provide 
ventilation to prevent condensation and degradation of products.  
G. Prevent contact with material that may cause corrosion, discoloration, or staining.  

--- Page 27 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 27 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 H. Provide equipment and personnel to store products by methods to prevent soiling, 
disfigurement, or damage.  
I. Arrange storage of products to permit access for inspection. Periodically inspect to verify products are undamaged and are maintained in acceptable condition.  
 
END  OF SECTION  
 
Execution and Closeout Requirements  
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Examination, preparation, and general installation procedures.  
B. Pre-installation meetings.  
C. Cutting and patching.  
D. Surveying for laying out the work.  
E. Cleaning and protection.  
F. Closeout procedures, except payment procedures.  
1.02  RELATED REQUIREMENTS  
A. Section 01 1000 - Summary: Limitations on working in existing buildings; continued 
occupancy; work sequence; identification of salvaged and relocated materials.  
1.03  QUALIFICATIONS  
A. For shop drawing work, employ a professional engineer registered in the State in which the Project is located and acceptable to Engineer.  
1.04  PROJECT CONDITIONS  
A. Ventilate enclosed areas to assist cure of materials, to dissipate humidity, and to prevent accumulation of dust, fumes, vapors, or gases.  
B. Dust Control: Execute work by methods to minimize raising dust from construction 
operations. Provide positive means to prevent air -borne dust from dispersing into 
atmosphere and over adjacent property.  
1. Provide dust -proof barriers between construction areas and areas continuing to 
be occupied by Association.  

--- Page 28 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 28 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 1.05  COORDINATION  
A. Coordinate scheduling, submittals, and work of the various sections of the Project 
Manual to ensure efficient and orderly sequence of installation of interdependent construction elements, with provisions for accommodating items installed later.  
B. In finished areas except as otherwise indicated, conceal pipes, ducts, and wiring within the construction. Coordinate locations of fixtures and outlets with finish elements. 
C. Coordinate completion and clean -up of work of separate sections.  
 
PART 2 PRODUCTS  
2.01  PATCHING MATERIALS  
A. New Materials: As specified in product sections; match existing products and work 
for patching and extending work.  
B. Type and Quality of Existing Products: Determine by inspecting and testing products where necessary, referring to existing work as a standard.  
C. Product Substitution: For any proposed change in materials, submit request for substitution described in Product Requirements  
  
PART 3 EXECUTION  
3.01  EXAMINATION  
A. Verify that existing site conditions and substrate surfaces are acceptable for 
subsequent work. Start of work means acceptance of existing conditions.  
B. Verify that existing substrate is capable of structural support or attachment of new work being applied or attached.  
C. Examine and verify specific conditions described in individual specification sections.  
D. Take field measurements before confirming product orders or beginning 
fabrication, to minimize waste due to over -ordering or mis-fabrication . 
E. Verify that utility services are available, of the correct characteristics, and in the 
correct locations.  
F. Prior to Cutting: Examine existing conditions prior to commencing work, including elements subject to damage or movement during cutting and patching. After 

--- Page 29 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 29 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 uncovering existing work, assess conditions affecting performance of work. 
Beginning of cutting or patching means acceptance of existing conditions.  
3.02  PREPARATION  
A. Clean substrate surfaces prior to applying next material or substance.  
B. Seal cracks or openings of substrate prior to applying next material or substance.  
C. Apply manufacturer required or recommended substrate primer, sealer, or 
conditioner prior to applying any new material or substance in contact or bond.  
3.03  PREINSTALLATION MEETINGS  
A. When required in individual specification sections, convene a pre -installation  
meeting at the site prior to commencing work of the section.  
B. Require attendance of parties directly affecting, or affected by, work of the specific section.  
C. Notify Engineer four (4) days in advance of meeting date.  
D. Prepare agenda and preside at meeting:  
1. Review conditions of examination, preparation , and installation procedures.  
2. Review coordination with related work.  
3.04  LAYING OUT THE WORK  
A. Verify locations of survey control points prior to starting work.  
B. Promptly notify Engineer of any discrepancies discovered.  
C. Promptly report to Engineer the loss or destruction of any reference point or relocation required because of changes in grades or other reasons.  
D. Periodically verify layouts by same means.  
E. Contractor to provide As-Built drawings of renovation areas, concrete, stucco, and submit these drawings at time of Payment Application submittal on a monthly frequency, or as Pay Apps are submitted.  
3.05  GENERAL INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS  
A. Install products as specified in individual sections, in accordance with manufacturers’ instructions and recommendations, and so as to avoid waste due 
to necessity for replacement. 
B. Make vertical elements plumb and horizontal elements level, unless otherwise indicated.  
C. Install equipment and fittings plumb and level, neatly aligned with adjacent vertical 

--- Page 30 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 30 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 and horizontal lines, unless otherwise indicated.  
D. Make consistent texture on surfaces, with seamless transitions, unless otherwise 
indicated.  
E. Make neat transitions between different surfaces, maintaining texture and appearance.  
3.06  CUTTING AND PATCHING  
A. Perform whatever cutting and patching is necessary to:  
1. Complete the work. 
2. Fit products together to integrate with other work. 
3. Provide openings for penetration of mechanical, electrical, and other services. 
4. Match work that has been cut to adjacent work.  
5. Repair areas adjacent to cuts to required condition.  
6. Repair new work damaged by subsequent work.  
7. Remove samples of installed work for testing when requested.  
8. Remove and replace defective and non -conforming work.  
A. Execute work by methods that avoid damage to other work and that will provide 
appropriate surfaces to receive patching and finishing. In existing work, minimize 
damage and restore to original condition.  
B. Cut rigid materials using masonry saw or core drill. Pneumatic tools are allowed  
with prior approval.  
C. Restore work with new products in accordance with requirements of Contract 
Documents.  
D. Patching:  
1. Finish patched surfaces to match finish that existed prior to patching. On continuous surfaces, refinish to nearest intersection or natural break. For an assembly, refinish entire unit. 
2. Match color, texture, and appearance. 
3. Repair patched surfaces that are damaged, lifted, discolored, or showing other imperfections due to patching work. If defects are due to condition of substrate, repair substrate prior to repairing finish.  
3.07  PROGRESS CLEANING  
A. Maintain areas free of waste materials, debris, and rubbish. Maintain site in a clean 

--- Page 31 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 31 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 and orderly condition.  
B. Broom and vacuum clean interior areas prior to start of surface finishing and 
continue cleaning to eliminate dust.  
C. Collect and remove waste materials, debris, and trash/rubbish from site periodically and dispose off -site; do not burn or bury.  
3.08  PROTECTION OF INSTALLED WORK  
A. Protect installed work from damage by construction operations.  
B. Provide special protection where specified in individual specification sections.  
C. Provide temporary and removable protection for installed products. Control activity in immediate work area to prevent damage.  
D. Provide protective coverings at walls, projections, jambs, sills, and soffits of openings.  
E. Protect finished floors, stairs, and other surfaces from traffic, dirt, wear, damage, or movement of heavy objects, by protecting them  with durable sheet materials.  
F. Prohibit traffic or storage upon waterproofed or roofed surfaces. If traffic or activity is necessary, obtain recommendations for protection from waterproofing or roofing material manufacturers . 
G. Remove protective coverings when no longer needed; reuse or recycle plastic coverings if possible.  
3.09  ADJUSTING  
A. Adjust operating products and equipment to ensure smooth and unhindered operation.  
3.10  FINAL CLEANING  
A. Use cleaning materials that are nonhazardous.  
B. Remove all labels that are not permanent. Do not paint or otherwise cover fire test labels or nameplates on mechanical and electrical equipment.  
C. Clean equipment and fixtures to a sanitary condition with cleaning materials 
appropriate to the surface and material being cleaned.  
D. Clean debris from roofs, gutters, downspouts, and drainage systems.  
E. Clean site:  sweep paved areas, rake clean landscape  surfaces.  
F. Remove waste, surplus materials, trash/rubbish, and construction facilities from 
the site; dispose of in legal mann er; do not burn or bury.  

--- Page 32 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 32 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 3.11  CLOSEOUT PROCEDURES  
A. Make submittals that are required by governing or other authorities.  
B. Notify Engineer when work is considered ready for Substantial Completion.  
C. Set up a punch list inspection with the Engineer to verify all items are fully 
completed.  
D. Correct items of work listed in executed Certificates of Substantial Completion and 
comply with requirements for access to Association -occupied areas.  
E. Notify Engineer when work is considered finally complete.  
F. Contractor and Contractor’s Subs shall close out all liens with a full release.  
G. Contractor to provide complete As-Built drawings of renovation areas, concrete, stucco, and submit these drawings prior to close out and final payment. These drawings will be used for warranty purposes of the areas under coverage.  
H. Contractor to provide all warranty documentation and permit close out in exchange for outstanding retainage fee.  
I. Warranty period begins at exchange.  
 
END  OF SECTION  
   

--- Page 33 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 33 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Closeout Submittals  
PART 1 GENERAL  
1.01  SECTION INCLUDES  
A. Project Record Documents.  
B. Warranties and bonds.  
1.02  RELATED REQUIREMENTS  
A. General Conditions: Performance bond and labor and material payment bonds, 
warranty, and correction of work.  
B. Administrative Requirements: Submittals procedures, shop drawings, product 
data, and samples.  
C. Individual Product Sections: Warranties required for specific products or Work.  
1.03  SUBMITTALS  
A. Project Record Documents: Submit documents to Engineer with claim for final 
Application for Payment.  
B. Warranties and Bonds:  
1. For equipment or component parts of equipment put into service during construction with Association's permission, submit documents within 10 days after acceptance. 
2. Make other submittals within 10 days after Date of Substantial Completion, 
prior to final Application for Payment.  
3. For items of Work for which acceptance is delayed beyond Date of Substantial Completion, submit within 10 days after acceptance, listing the date of acceptance as the beginning of the warranty period.  
PART 2  EXECUTION  
2.01 PROJECT RECORD DOCUMENTS  
A. Maintain on site one set of the following record documents; record actual revisions to the Work: 
1. Drawings.  
2. Specifications.  
3. Change Orders and other modifications to the Contract.  

--- Page 34 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 34 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 B. Ensure entries are complete and accurate, enabling future reference by 
Association.  
C. Store record documents separate from documents used for construction.  
D. Record information concurrent with construction progress.  
E. Specifications: Legibly mark and record at each product section description of actual products installed, including the following:  
1. Changes made by Addenda and modifications.  
F. Record Drawings: Legibly mark each item to record actual construction including:  
1. Field changes of dimension and detail.  
2. Details not on original Contract drawings.  
G. Contractor to provide complete As-Built drawings of renovation areas, concrete, stucco, and submit these drawings prior to close out and final payment. These drawings will be used for warranty purposes of the areas under coverage.  
2.02  WARRANTIES AND BONDS  
A. Obtain warranties and bonds, executed in duplicate by responsible Subcontractors, suppliers, and manufacturers, within 10 days after completion of the applicable item of work. Except for items put into  
B. use with Association's permission, leave date of beginning of time of warranty until the Date of Substantial completion is determined.  
C. Verify that documents are in proper form, contain full information, and are notarized.  
D. Co-execute submittals when required. 
E. Retain warranties and bonds until time specified for submittal.  
 
END  OF SECTIO N

--- Page 35 ---
Project Manual – Bid Package  NV5.COM  | 35 Audubon  Villas at Hunter’s Creek Condominium – Building s 12 through 16  
Bid Package  
 
 
 Attachments   
 

--- Page 36 ---


--- Page 37 ---


--- Page 38 ---


--- Page 39 ---


--- Page 40 ---


--- Page 41 ---


--- Page 42 ---


--- Page 43 ---


--- Page 44 ---


--- Page 45 ---


--- Page 46 ---
 
 
APPROVED  MATERIALS  AND  SPECIFICATIONS 
PROJECT  NAME : 
AUDUBON VILLAS AT HUNTER’S CREEK CONDOMINIUM  
BUILDINGS 12 THROUGH 16 
Below is a summary of approved materials and specif ications, however, the contractors performing 
the project can submit RFI to the EOR to approve al ternatives. Structural design, specifications, 
fastener details, connection details, etc. will be provided in the structural sheets with the Permit 
Package.  
All surfaces shall be prepared in accordance with t he manufacturer’s specifications. All materials sha ll 
be stored, mixed, prepared, and installed in accord ance with the manufacturer’s specifications and 
recommendations. Used, or repurposed materials will  not be allowed. All work shall be performed in 
accordance with the applicable codes and standards.   
1.  Structural Repairs: Wood Frame 
1.1.  To be used in the following General Scope of Work Items :  
 I. Structural Repairs 
 III. Column/Posts Chase (Stucco) Repairs 
1.2.  Wood Members 
 So. Pine No. 2, S4S 
 Moisture content not greater than 19% 
 All wood in contact with concrete or masonry shall be pressure treated. 
1.3.  Metal to Wood Connectors 
 Galvanized Simpson Strong Tie Co. 
 In conformance with ASTM A307I.  
 Use washers between wood and all bolt heads and nut s. 
1.4.  Sheathing (Balcony Decking) 
 Exterior grade APA rated plywood, minimum 23/32”, E xposure 1, Structural 1 and 
32/16 span rating 
 Fastening shall be at a minimum in accordance with Table 2304.10.1 of the 8 th  
Edition Florida Building Code 
1.5.  Sheathing (Walls) 
 Exterior grade APA rated plywood, minimum 15/32”, E xposure 1, Structural 1 and 
32/16 span rating 

--- Page 47 ---
Approved Materials Specifications  Page 2 of 3  
 
 Fastening shall be at a minimum in accordance with Table 2304.10.1 of the 8 th  
Edition Florida Building Code 
2.  Façade Repairs: Stucco System.  
2.1.  To be used in the following General Scope of Work Items :  
 III. Column/Posts Chase (Stucco) Repairs 
 IV. Exterior Façade (Stucco Repairs) 
2.2.  Water Resistive Barrier (WRB):  
 Install to cover the sheathing per ASTM C1063 speci fications, WRB to comply with 
ASTM E2556 specifications. 
 Dupont Tyvek Commercial Wrap WRB or equal over sheat hing.   
2.3.  Paper Backed Lath:   
 Install to comply with ASTM C1063 specifications 
 Amico Paper Backed Lath or equal.  
2.4.  Stucco Accessories:  
 Casing beads, control/expansion joints per ASTM C10 63.  
 Replace control/expansion joints; shingle-lap WRB; cure stucco per Product Data 
Sheet (PDS). 
 Adhesion mockups required where coating over new stu cco. 
2.5.  Stucco: 
 Amerimix Scratch & Brown Stucco – AMX 730 SB or equ al.   
3.  Decks 
3.1.  Applies to the following General Scope of Work Items :  
 II. Balcony, Exterior Corridor, and Landing Restora tion 
3.2.  Substrate Preparation  
 Substrate must be intact, sound, clean, dry, and se curely fastened with non-
corrosive screws. 
 Substrate must be sloped to 1/8” per foot - 2% min.  to edge 
3.3.  Plywood Waterproofing Membrane Application: 
 Sikalastic® HLM 5000 R. 
 Where needed seal plywood joints with Sikaflex® HY 1 00 
3.4.  Drainage Mat: 
 Sika® Drainage Mat 1000.   
 Secure the drain mat by adhering with SikaFlex® 11 F C to prevent shifting during 
concrete placement.  

--- Page 48 ---
Approved Materials Specifications  Page 3 of 3  
 
3.5.  Concrete Topping: 
 3000 PSI 28-days compressive strength 
 5 inches slump 
 4.5% air entrainment 
 10’ - 0” max spacing for control joints 
3.6.  Concrete Sealing: 
 SikaCem -100 Pro 350 sealer 
 Perimeter/vertical/stucco terminations (outside the  coated deck field): Sikaflex® 
HY 100 acceptable; prime as required; use backer rod /bond-breaker and tool to 
concave profile  
 Deck finish color to be selected by Owner.  
4.  Paint 
4.1.  Applies to the following General Scope of Work Items :  
 V. Painting of Repair Areas 
4.2.  Stucco Surfaces:  
 Painting in accordance with the provided Sherwin Wi lliams painting specifications. 
 Identify and repair cracks per manufacturer’s recomm endations.  
 Primer: Loxon Conditioner (LX03-100). 
 Finish and Intermediate Coat: Loxon XP Satin (LX21 Series).  
 Primer not required for new stucco, apply two coats  of paint to new stucco.  
4.3.  Exterior Ceiling Surfaces: 
 Painting in accordance with the provided Sherwin Wi lliams painting specifications.  
 Clean all areas per manufacturer’s recommendations.   
 Prime all stains with ProBlock Latex Primer B51 seri es.  
 SuperPaint Exterior Acrylic Satin (A89 Series).  
5.  Sealants 
5.1.  Applies to the following General Scope of Work Items :  
 V. Painting of Repair Areas 
5.2.  Sealant Joints – Dissimilar Materials:  
 Sherwin-Williams LOXON H1 One Component Low Modulus  Sealant.   
 Uniformly apply caulks and sealant without skips, vo ids, or sags. Tool bead to a 
consistent, smooth surface.  
 
